EFS - Elastic file System

What is AWS Elastic File System?
From the aforementioned list, EFS falls under the file storage category. EFS is a file-level,
fully managed, storage provided by AWS (Amazon Web Services) that can be accessed by multiple EC2 instances concurrently.
Just like the AWS EBS, EFS is specially designed for high throughput and low latency applications. 

How Does EFS Work?
EFS can be created using the EC2-Instance where it will be created in a specific region and distributed across multiple availability
zones for the purpose of high availability and durability. You can choose the EFS based on the I/Ops you are going to perform.

Use Cases Of EFS

Secured file sharing: 
You can share your files in every secured manner and in a faster and easier way and also ensures consistency across the system.

Web Hosting: 
Well suited for web servers where multiple web servers can access the file system and can store the data EFS also scales whenever the data incoming is increased.

Modernize application development:
You can share the data from the AWS resources like ECS, EKS, and any serverless web applications in an efficient manner and without more management required.

Machine Learning and AI Workloads:
EFS is well suited for large data AI applications where multiple instances and containers will access the same data improving collaboration and reducing data duplication.

NFS -  Network File system

Network File System (NFS) is a networking protocol for distributed file sharing. 
A file system defines the way data in the form of files is stored and retrieved from storage devices, 
such as hard disk drives, solid-state drives and tape drives.
NFS is a network file sharing protocol that defines the way files are stored and retrieved from storage devices across networks.

The NFS protocol defines a network file system, originally developed for local file sharing among Unix systems and released by Sun Microsystems in 1984.
The NFS protocol specification was first published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) as an internet protocol in RFC 1094 in 1989.\
The current version of the NFS protocol is documented in RFC 7530, which documents the NFS version 4 (NFSv4) Protocol.

NFS enables system administrators to share all or a portion of a file system on a networked server to make it accessible to remote computer users.
Clients with Authorization to access the shared file system can mount NFS shares, also known as shared file systems.
NFS uses Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs) to route requests between clients and servers.


EFS // NFS - Port - 2049

LAB

#For this lab we will create two ec2 in diff AZ's

Create Ec2-1
N/w - Default
Az - 1a
SG - ssh
Storage - default 
Launch


Create Ec2 - 2 
N/w - Default
Az - 1b
SG - ssh
Storage - default 
Launch

#Now, as both the ec2 are launched under same VPC, we will configure the EFS

#Lets create EFS

Go to EFS
EFS
Create EFS
Name - EFS
Network - Default

#Once the EFS is created, we need to configure the SG for the EFS
#We need to configure SG port 2049 for EFS

Go to VPC
Security Groups
Create SG
Name - EFS - Port - 2049

#Attch the SG to EFS

Go to EFS
Select EFS
Go to Network
Manage
Add SG - EFS

#Once the SG is comfigured

#We can Attach the EFS file system to any number of servers, from the same network.













