AWS Transfer Family is a fully managed service that enables you to securely transfer files to and from Amazon S3 and Amazon EFS 
(Elastic File System) using traditional file transfer protocols. It supports SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol), 
FTPS (File Transfer Protocol Secure), and FTP (File Transfer Protocol). 
This service is ideal for companies that need to move large amounts of data into AWS but prefer to continue using familiar, traditional file transfer methods.

With AWS Transfer Family, you can easily migrate from on-premises file servers, integrate third-party applications, 
or set up cloud-based workflows that require file transfers.
The service is highly scalable, secure, and integrates seamlessly with other AWS services like Amazon S3, Amazon EFS, IAM (Identity and Access Management), and CloudWatch.

Key Features and Benefits

Fully Managed Service:

AWS manages the infrastructure and scaling for you. There is no need to manage servers or handle patching and maintenance of the transfer software.
Multiple File Transfer Protocols:

Supports SFTP, FTPS, and FTP, allowing you to choose the protocol that works best for your use case.

Secure Transfers:

Data in transit is encrypted using industry-standard protocols (e.g., TLS for FTPS, SSH for SFTP).
IAM integration provides fine-grained access control to manage who can access the service and what files they can access.
Integration with Amazon S3 and Amazon EFS:

You can store your files in Amazon S3 (object storage) or Amazon EFS (file system storage), depending on your specific use case.
Both storage solutions offer durability, scalability, and low-latency access.
Scalable and Reliable:

AWS Transfer Family scales automatically to handle the volume of file transfers and supports high availability.

Audit and Monitoring:

Use AWS CloudWatch to monitor file transfer activity, track logs, and generate alerts for operational insights.

Identity Management:

Integrates with AWS IAM (Identity and Access Management) for controlling user access, and AWS Directory Service to manage user authentication via existing corporate directories.
Supports integration with Amazon Cognito for easier user authentication and management.

Custom Workflows:

Allows the use of AWS Lambda to trigger functions based on events, such as when files are uploaded or downloaded, for further automation.

Endpoint Customization:

You can create custom endpoint URLs (domain names) for the service, improving the experience for your users and aligning it with your branding.

No Server Management:

Unlike traditional file transfer servers, AWS Transfer Family is fully managed, so you don’t need to worry about patching, scaling, or high availability.

Supported Protocols
SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol): A secure and widely used method for transferring files, especially in environments that require high security.
FTPS (FTP Secure): An extension to FTP that adds support for SSL/TLS encryption.
FTP (File Transfer Protocol): A basic protocol for transferring files, although it is less secure than SFTP and FTPS.
AWS Transfer Family Use Cases

Migration of On-Premises File Servers:

Easily migrate existing data stored on on-premises SFTP or FTP servers to AWS S3 or EFS.

Secure File Sharing:

Allow partners, customers, or internal teams to securely upload or download files via FTP/SFTP, with the files directly stored in Amazon S3 or EFS.

Data Ingestion for Analytics:

Move large datasets into Amazon S3 for further processing by analytics services like Amazon Athena, Amazon Redshift, or AWS Glue.

Automated File Workflows:

Trigger automated workflows (e.g., Lambda functions) based on file uploads or downloads. For example, automatically processing files as they arrive in S3.

Managed Transfer for Applications:

Use AWS Transfer Family for applications that require file transfers (e.g., media processing, healthcare data exchange, or financial applications) without the need for manual intervention.
How AWS Transfer Family Works

Create a Transfer Server:

- Create Server
- Select Protocol - SFTP
- Identity provider - Service Managed
- Endpoint - Public
- Hostname - None
- Log Group - Create new
- Create Server

#Once the Server is created create a s3 bucket
- Go to S3
- Create new bucket

#Once the bucket is created, create IAM role to give access to this bucket. 
- IAM - Identity and access management
- Create Role
- AWS service
- Use Case - Transfer
- Permission- S3 full access 
- create role

#Once role is created, we should generate access key and secret key.
#Go to Windows terminal
- ssh-keygen -f "keyname"

#Once key is generated, we need to update public key on the user profile
- Go to transfer family
- Add user
- Username
- Role - IAM role
- Policy - Node
- Home Dir - Select your s3 bucket
- SSH Public key - update pub key from win machine
- Add user


#Now to access, we need winscp
#Download winscp from browser

- open winscp
- protocol - sftp
- port - 22
- HostID - Endpoint
- Username 
- password - node
- Advanced 
  - ssh
   - AUTH 
    - Select pvt-key-file #This will be converted to ppk
- Connect

#Now, we can exchange data from the local machine to s3 and s3 to local !!!!

You start by creating a transfer server. This server can be set up to use one or more of the supported file transfer protocols (SFTP, FTP, or FTPS).
Configure Users and Permissions:

You then configure the users that will be allowed to access the service, specifying which files they can access.
IAM roles and policies can be used to control access to S3 buckets or EFS file systems, ensuring that users can only interact with specific files or directories.
Set Up File Storage:

Choose where your files will be stored: Amazon S3 (for object storage) or Amazon EFS (for file-based storage).
Transfer Files:

Once the server is set up and users are authenticated, they can start transferring files using the chosen protocol (SFTP, FTP, or FTPS).
Monitor and Manage Transfers:

Use AWS CloudWatch to monitor transfer activity, track metrics like bytes transferred, and set up alerts based on specific conditions (e.g., failed transfers).

Automate with Lambda:

Optionally, integrate AWS Lambda to trigger actions based on specific events, such as a file being uploaded to S3 or EFS.
Pricing for AWS Transfer Family
Pricing for AWS Transfer Family depends on several factors:

Endpoint Hours:

Charged per hour for each active endpoint that you configure (whether it’s SFTP, FTPS, or FTP).
Data Transfer:

There is a charge for the data transferred in and out of the service (data transfer to/from AWS services like S3 or EFS).
Additional Costs:

Costs associated with the underlying storage (e.g., S3 storage costs, EFS storage costs).
Optional costs for additional services like AWS Lambda or CloudWatch Logs if you use them in your setup.
Example Pricing:

Server Hourly Pricing: Based on the protocol and the type of endpoint (e.g., $0.30 per hour for an SFTP endpoint).
Data Transfer: Typically charged based on the volume of data transferred (e.g., $0.09 per GB for data transfer into AWS regions).
For a detailed cost breakdown, you should refer to the AWS Transfer Family Pricing Page.

Integration with Other AWS Services
Amazon S3: Store transferred files in S3 for durability, availability, and scalability. You can also apply lifecycle policies to automatically archive or delete files.
Amazon EFS: Store files in a scalable file system, which is useful for applications requiring file-based storage.
IAM: Use AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) for user authentication and fine-grained access control.
AWS Lambda: Automate tasks based on file transfer events (e.g., triggering a Lambda function when a file is uploaded).
AWS CloudTrail: Enable CloudTrail logging to track all API calls for auditing purposes.
AWS CloudWatch: Monitor file transfer activities with CloudWatch metrics and logs.
Example Use Case: Secure File Transfer for Data Analytics
Scenario: A company needs to securely transfer large datasets from multiple partners into Amazon S3 for processing with Amazon Athena (for analytics).

Solution:

The company sets up an SFTP server using AWS Transfer Family.
They create user accounts for each partner, granting them permissions to upload data to specific S3 buckets.
As data is uploaded, an AWS Lambda function is triggered to process the files (e.g., validate the files, move them to appropriate directories, or start the Athena query).
The company monitors the transfers via AWS CloudWatch for successful and failed uploads.
