AWS Auto Scaling is a service that helps you automatically monitor and adjust the capacity 
of your applications to maintain optimal performance and cost efficiency.
It ensures that the number of compute resources (e.g., EC2 instances, ECS tasks, DynamoDB tables) scales up or down based on demand.

Key Components of AWS Auto Scaling

Scaling Plans:
Define how and when your resources should scale.
Scaling plans can be based on metrics (e.g., CPU utilization) or schedules (e.g., scale up at peak hours).

Resources Supported:
Amazon EC2 Instances: Scale the number of virtual machines.
EC2 Spot Fleets: Automatically replace interrupted Spot Instances.
ECS Tasks: Adjust the number of running tasks in an Amazon ECS service.
DynamoDB Tables: Automatically manage throughput capacity.
Aurora Read Replicas: Add or remove database replicas.

Scaling Policies:
Target Tracking Scaling: Adjusts capacity to maintain a specific metric, such as CPU utilization at 50%.
Step Scaling: Scales in steps based on metric thresholds (e.g., increase by 2 instances if CPU > 70%).
Scheduled Scaling: Scales based on a pre-set schedule (e.g., add capacity during business hours).
Auto Scaling Groups (ASG):
Logical group of EC2 instances that AWS Auto Scaling manages.
Includes settings for minimum, maximum, and desired instance counts.

Key Features of AWS Auto Scaling
Dynamic Scaling:
Automatically adjusts resource capacity based on demand patterns.
Scheduled Scaling:
Predefine scaling actions for specific times.
Health Checks:
Monitors the health of instances and replaces unhealthy ones.
Integrated Metrics:
Use CloudWatch metrics (e.g., CPU utilization, request latency) for scaling decisions.
Predictive Scaling:
Leverages machine learning to predict future demand and proactively scale resources.
Cost Optimization:
Ensures you only pay for resources you need by scaling down during periods of low demand.
High Availability:
Distributes resources across multiple Availability Zones for fault tolerance.

To create an Auto Scaling Group (ASG) for the EC2 instances behind the Application Load Balancer (ALB),
follow these steps. This ensures high availability and that the required number of instances are always running.

Step 1: Create a Launch Template
A Launch Template defines the instance configuration that the Auto Scaling Group will use.

Navigate to EC2 Dashboard:

Go to Launch Templates.
Click Create Launch Template.
Configure Launch Template:

Name: Provide a name, e.g., WebServer-LaunchTemplate.
AMI: Select the same AMI used for the existing instances (e.g., Amazon Linux 2).
Instance Type: Choose the same type, e.g., t2.micro.
Key Pair: Select an existing key pair or create a new one for SSH access.
Network Settings:
Leave network settings blank; the ASG will handle VPC and subnet selection.
Storage: Configure EBS volume settings.

User Data: Add a script to install and configure the web server automatically:

bash

#!/bin/bash
yum update -y
yum install -y httpd
systemctl start httpd
systemctl enable httpd
echo "Hello from $(hostname)" > /var/www/html/index.html

Security Group: Use the same security group as the existing instances, allowing HTTP (port 80) access.

Create Launch Template:

Review and click Create Launch Template.

Step 2: Create an Auto Scaling Group
Navigate to Auto Scaling Groups:

In the EC2 Dashboard, click Auto Scaling Groups.
Click Create Auto Scaling Group.
Configure ASG Basics:

Name: Provide a name, e.g., WebServer-ASG.
Launch Template: Select the launch template created in Step 1.
Select VPC and Subnets:

Choose the same VPC as the existing instances.
Select at least two subnets in different Availability Zones for high availability.
Attach Load Balancer:

Choose Attach to a new load balancer target group (or the existing target group from the previous setup).
Select the Target Group associated with your ALB.
Configure Desired Capacity:

Desired Capacity: Set to 2 (to match the existing setup).
Minimum Capacity: 1.
Maximum Capacity: 3 (or higher, depending on expected traffic).
Set Scaling Policies:

Use Target Tracking Scaling:
Metric: Average CPU Utilization.
Target value: e.g., 50% (scale up or down based on CPU load).
Optionally, configure Step Scaling Policies for finer-grained control.
Add Notifications:

Configure notifications to an SNS Topic to receive alerts about scaling events.
Review and Create:

Verify all configurations and click Create Auto Scaling Group.

Step 3: Test the Setup
Simulate Scaling:

Reduce the ASG’s Desired Capacity to 1 and observe an instance terminating.
Increase the Desired Capacity to 3 and observe new instances launching.
Health Check:

ASG will monitor instance health using the ELB health checks.
Stop one instance to see if ASG launches a replacement.
Load Balancer:

Verify that new instances automatically register with the ALB and serve traffic.



